<Interface to In-Network Computing Functions (I2ICF)>

o Group Information
- The group name
  Interface to In-Network Computing Functions (I2ICF)

- The email list
  i2icf@ietf.org

- The IETF area
  Operations and Management Area (ops)

- BoF Chairs
  Jaehoon Paul Jeong (Sungkyunkwan University): jaehoon.paul@gmail.com
  Kehan Yao (China Mobile): khyao78@gmail.com

o Charter
- The I2ICF group tries to standardize a framework and its interfaces toconfigure, monitor, and manage
  In-Network Computing Functions (ICF)in Computing in the Network (COIN) and comes up with a framework to
  manage such ICFs in an autonomous way. An ICF is a ProgrammableNetwork Device (PND) in an In-Network
  Computing (INC)  environmentthat can have multiple kinds of capabilities to provision a user's service,
  consisting of Network Functions (NFs) and Application Functions (AFs).

- The I2ICF aims at a standard framework and interfaces for provisioningICFs for the requested services
  in an Edge or Cloud. It can collaboratewith CATS WG for computing-aware traffic steering at edge and
  cloudcomputing systems.

- The I2ICF group tries to specify a problem statement for the Interface toIn-Network Computing Functions
  (I2ICF) for user services both on thenetwork-level and application-level. In-Network Computing Functions
  (ICF) include Network Functions (NFs) that are defined in the context of NetworkFunctions Virtualization
  (NFV) and Software-Defined Networking (SDN).ICF also includes Application Functions (AFs) for the sake
  of Internet-of-Things (IoT) Devices, Software-Defined Vehicles (SDV), and UnmannedAerial Vehicles (UAV).
  Intent-Based Networking (IBN) can also be used tocompose user services and consist of a combination of
  ICFs in a targetnetwork. This group investigates the need for a standard framework withthe interfaces
  for ICFs, in terms of applications with the need to run ArtificialIntelligence (AI) in the network and
  interoperability among multi-vendor ICFs.The I2ICF group aims at specifying a problem statement, use
  cases, and aframework with common interfaces for the management of ICFs. This groupalso aims at
  standardizing an I2ICF framework and the YANG data modelsfor the capabilities of ICFs and the I2ICF
  interfaces. An intent or a policy forthe ICFs can be constructed by an XML file based on those YANG
  data models. The delivery of such an intent or a policy can be performed byeither NETCONF or RESTCONF.

o Work Items
 (1) Interface to In-Network Computing Functions (I2ICF): Problem Statement and Use Cases
 (2) A Framework for Interface to In-Network Computing Functions (I2ICF)
 (3) YANG Data Models for the I2ICF Capability and Interfaces
